>> Mike North: So
why would we wanna add types?
Why would someone bother
to make this project?
First, it gives us the opportunity
to take assumptions and
constraints we have as authors
when we write a piece of code.
It gives us an opportunity to
make those a part of our code.
So if you have a function that's designed
to take a string as an argument,
you actually have a place where you could
say, this argument must be a string.
Now, if we were just looking
at regular JavaScript,
you could write a comment saying,
please only pass string to this function.
But you'd be relying on people reading
your source code and finding that.
You could assert that it's a string
like within the function, throwing
error if the type of this value is not
a string, but that starts to add up.
It starts to get towards something
we would call defensive programming.
Which is where you basically don't
trust any of your inputs and
it introduces a lot of overhead and
complexity,
both performance overhead and
cognitive overhead, right?
You hire a new person to your team and
they're gonna have to weave through
the stuff and
figure out where are the assertions and
what's this function actually doing after
it's satisfied that the data is correct.
It makes things a little
difficult to maintain.
So this types assist us in
taking all of our developer
intent and
encoding it into the code we write.
Types help us catch common mistakes,
like a spelling error.
I make spelling errors a few times a day,
at least leading up to my second or
third cup of coffee,
spelling errors are very common.
So because there's a validation that
you're only accessing the properties
that you should be accessing and that
you're naming your arguments correctly.
You're less likely to make those
with types because you've defined
what should be accessed, and everything
else you should not be trying to touch.
An incomplete refactors and
other good example.
Imagine you have a function that
you're using in four places and
you add another required argument and
you only update three of the call
sites leaving one out of date.
The compiler will let you know
that there is a mismatch here, so
it helps catch that kind of thing which
is very difficult to catch in JavaScript.
You'll see throughout our work today that
we're moving a lot of errors we would find
at run time up to compile time.
So we're getting earlier feedback and
we're getting feedback as
a result of static analysis.
Which is an analysis that just looks at
your source code and comes to conclusions.
As opposed to runtime analysis which
requires you to actually go through and
execute every path of your code.
So you could catch some of
the stuff with tests, absolutely.
But while you're writing your code and
maybe you haven't written your test yet,
or maybe your test are incomplete,
is anyone here worked on a project
that has an imperfect test suite?
I have, all hands should go up right now.
All of your test suits
are probably imperfect.
So, this means you are not depending
on tests to catch this type of error.
You certainly can make
other types of errors.
And then finally right away, you're gonna
see that TypeScript is the foundation
of a great developer experience.
It's something that the JavaScript
ecosystem has kind of been missing
relative two typed programming languages.
So I started out as a Java developer and
I used a wide-range of
IDEs to write my code in.
And I've got a lot of outlines
showing me these are the classes and
these are the members of the classes, and
these are public and these are private.
And I got great auto-completes because
the language was setup in such a way
that you could know what you're supposed
to be accessing and what you're not.
And what is the value of
the thing you are accessing?
This is much harder to figure out in a
dynamically typed language like JavaScript
or Ruby.